So now, let's talk about
the AWS IAM Identity Center.
And this service is the successor
to something that you used to know probably
which is called the AWS Single Sign-On Service.
So, the idea is that it's the same service
that's been renamed,
and it gives you one login.
Therefore, it's called single sign-on
for all your AWS accounts in the AWS organizations,
but also your business cloud applications.
So you can connect to Salesforce, to Box,
to Microsoft 365 and so on,
or any application you want
as long as you have a SAML2.0 integration.
And finally, it gives you a single login
into your EC2 Windows Instances.
So, one login access to everything
which is really, really good.
And the exam most likely will ask you
about one login into multiple AWS accounts.
Now, the identity provider,
so where your users are stored for this login
can be twofold.
It could be a built-in identity store
in the IAM Identity Center,
or you can connect to a 3rd party identity provider.
It can be Active Directory AD,
or OneLogin, or Okta and so on.
So, just to make it very visible and visual for you,
we have the login flow such as this.
You go onto the login page,
you enter your username and your password,
and then you go directly into the AWS IAM Identity Center.
And this is actually a screenshot
from my own Identity Center page.
And as you can see from there,
I have enabled it for my AWS account
and so I can click on the account I want
and connect directly for example
in the management console
And then if I do this,
then I'm taken directly from this
into the home page of your console.
But I'm logged in in that specific console.
So, the idea is that I don't need to know
how to log in into that specific console.
I can just log in into my IAM Identity Center portal.
And from there, I have SSO.
So, no need to enter your password
once you have single sign-on
have SSO access to accounts, business applications,
and so on.
So, if in the real world you have multiple AWS accounts,
I would recommend 100% to use this service.
Okay, so now let's talk about how this works.
So, the browser interface is going to connect
to the login page of your AWS IAM Identity Center.
And then you have to integrate it as I said,
with different user stores.
So, it could be an Active Directory,
it could be on the cloud or On-premises.
And this is where you would use Active Directory
to manage your users and your groups.
Or you can use the IAM Identity Center.
This is the built-in identity store.
And this is where, for example,
you would define your users and your groups
as you are used to in IAM.
Then you integrate Identity Center with SSO
for your organization,
or your Windows EC2 Instances,
your Business Cloud Applications,
or your custom SAML2.0 enabled applications.
Again, the cool thing is that you have one login
for all of this,
and that simplifies a lot your flow.
Now, of course, when you log in,
you don't have access to everything.
You define something called permission sets
in the Identity Center to define which users
have access to what.
So, how does everything relate in IAM Identity Center
for permissions, and users, and groups?
So, we have an organization
and we set up IAM Identity Center
in the management accounts.
We have two OUs, a development,
and a production OU each with our own accounts.
Now, we have two developers in our company.
We have Bob and Alice.
So first of all, we're going to do just like we do in IAM,
we're going to create a group of developers
for Bob and Alice.
Now, we want to make sure that Bob and Alice
both have access to full access of the OU for development.
So, we're going to create what's called the permission sets
and we're going to allow admin access on it.
And then we have to associate this permission sets
with a specific OU.
So, we associate the purchase with the development OU
and then we assign these permission sets
to our group of developers,
which will allow Bob and Alice to assume a role
on any development accounts that gives them full access
to that account.
Similarly, we could create another permission set
called ReadOnlyAccess for Production OU.
So, we associate it,
and again, we assign these permissions
with a group of developers.
So, this is how you relate users to groups,
to permission sets, to assignments of specific accounts
on IAM Identity Center.
So, now let's talk about the fine grained permissions
and assignments.
And the first one is Multi-Account permission.
So of course, using the service,
you can manage access across multiple accounts
in your organization.
And using permission sets,
you define one or more IAM Policies
that you assign to users and to groups
to define what they can access in AWS.
So, here is the IAM Identity Center,
and it's integrated with your organization
and you define a permission sets for database admins.
So, it's a collection of IAM policies.
And you say for example,
that you have access to RDS and Aurora in your Dev account
as well as RDS and Aurora in the Prod account.
And this will automatically create
a corresponding IAM role for your users.
And therefore, when you have your database admins,
it could be a group for example,
and your users are in this group,
you will assign it the permission sets of database admins.
And whenever users log in through the IAM Identity Center
and access the console of your Dev accounts
or your Prod accounts,
they will be automatically assuming an IAM role
in that specific accounts.
They will give them the permissions they're supposed to get
which is pretty good.
So, it works the same way.
So, you have application assignments
and you can define which users or groups
can access which applications.
And it gives them the required URL,
the certificates and metadata.
So all of this is supported out of the box.
And something that enables
is called Attribute-Based Access Control.
So, the idea
is that you're going to have fine-grained permissions
based on the user's attributes
stored in the IAM Identity Center Store.
So, that means that you can have tags and so on.
And using this,
you can, for example assign a user to a cost center,
or give them a title.
So, like junior, senior, or a locale, whatever.
So, don't only have access to a specific region.
And the use case of this
is that you actually define the IAM permission sets once,
and they leverage these attributes
and you only modify the access to AWS of your users
on your groups,
but it's just changing these underlying attributes.
So, this is a use case that is advanced
but that is enabled by using the AWS IAM Identity Center.
So, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it, and I will see you in the next lecture.